check this make my system crash and i think we should remove the ollama LLM locally downloaded and just integrate with open ai api directely i have open ai key already.
** Check that:
After 4:22 mins 
And logged again and it is all over no Vs code and nothing is running
Got it 👍 Thanks for sharing the screenshots. Let me explain what’s happening here:

1. What we see in htop

Your CPU usage is nearly maxed out (98–100% for the python3 processes running inference.py with Wav2Lip).

Memory usage: 66 GB / 89 GB → very high, though not fully maxed.

Swap: it started being used (196 MB out of 8 GB). This means RAM pressure is high.

You are running:

Uvicorn server

Plasma server background

Wav2Lip (very heavy model inference)



All these together create a system resource overload.


---

2. The crash message

The second screen (Oh no! Something has gone wrong.) is a GNOME Shell crash.

This usually happens when:

GPU driver crashes (too much CUDA/GPU load).

Out-of-memory kills GNOME/Wayland/Xorg.

System runs into a kernel panic due to heavy GPU/CPU tasks.



When it logs you out, it’s because the desktop session crashed (but the kernel/system is still alive).


---

3. Why VS Code and apps disappeared after login

When GNOME crashed and restarted, all running GUI apps (like VS Code) were terminated.
CLI apps (like Uvicorn, Wav2Lip) might also have been killed if they were in the same session.


---

4. How to fix / stabilize

Here are a few things you can do:

(A) Manage Wav2Lip resource usage

Run inference with smaller batch size or lower resolution input.
Example: resize input video frames before inference.

If GPU is present, ensure CUDA is being used instead of CPU only (otherwise CPU load is extreme).


(B) Prevent GNOME from crashing

Run heavy processes in a separate TTY (press Ctrl+Alt+F3 → login → run there).
This way, if GNOME crashes, your process continues running.

Or run them in a screen/tmux session so they survive logout.


(C) Monitor and Limit Memory

Use --max-memory or process chunks manually.

Add more swap space to prevent OOM. Example:

sudo fallocate -l 16G /swapfile
sudo chmod 600 /swapfile
sudo mkswap /swapfile
sudo swapon /swapfile

Check dmesg | grep -i oom after crash → if OOM killed GNOME.


(D) GPU drivers

If you’re using NVIDIA and GNOME crashes, update or reinstall the driver:

nvidia-smi   # check if GPU is seen


---

👉 So, the core issue: Wav2Lip is overloading your system and crashing the GNOME desktop session.
Solution: run heavy jobs in TTY/screen, reduce Wav2Lip load, or ensure GPU acceleration is configured.


---

Do you want me to give you an exact command setup (like screen + uvicorn + wav2lip) so you can run everything safely without crashing your desktop session?

So I think I can remove ollama and just integrate with open ai api
Yes ✅ exactly. That’s the cleanest and most stable approach.

Here’s why:

🔹 When you use Ollama

Heavy model files (several GBs).

Eats RAM/VRAM (10–20 GB depending on model).

CPU load stays high even when idle because it’s serving.

Causes GNOME crashes like you saw if combined with Wav2Lip.


🔹 When you use OpenAI API

Nothing runs locally → no RAM or GPU usage.

You just send/receive text over the network.

Super light → you can run Uvicorn + Plasma + Wav2Lip without extra stress.

Scales easily (you just change API calls).


✅ Recommendation

If your project doesn’t require offline/local LLMs, it’s much better to:

1. Uninstall Ollama (frees up 10s of GBs storage + RAM pressure).

sudo rm -rf ~/.ollama

and stop the service:

sudo systemctl stop ollama
sudo systemctl disable ollama


2. Replace Ollama calls in your CLI with OpenAI API calls.




---

⚡ Bonus: You can even design your code so it supports both backends:

Default: OpenAI API (lightweight).

Optional: Ollama (if someone wants offline mode).



---

👉 Do you want me to show you a sample Python wrapper that lets you easily switch between OpenAI API and Ollama backends with one config flag?